---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-01-30
published: true
labels:
  - WODS Essay
---

## WOD 1
For BrowserHistory1, it took me four attempts to finally reach Rx time and around 2 days to complete because learning how to add internal and external links was very new to me. I didn't start by watching the video, I tried it out with just my notes as a resource. I got through steps one through five but step six and seven is where I hit that road block and needed to ask for help. The next day I asked my friend for help and she ended up telling me about the helpful screencast solution that I didn't see before. The video was so helpful, I watched it and followed along step by step. The second time was easier to remember, I was just confused on the links. I watched the screencast again to see where I went wrong. After I erased everything and started my timer and finally made it under the Rx time. I learned how useful the a tag and href attribute are, there's a lot of different uses for them and they really make a web page more visibly appealing and organized. I also learned how to push my WOD, I had over 500 changes that weren’t pushed lol. Overall the first WOD wasn’t as hard but took plenty of practice.

## WOD 2
BrowserHistory2 took me three attempts to reach Rx time. This is the one where I learned how to wrap my code and properly copy a file. The steps were easy to follow, I just made a lot of grammar and punctuation errors in the code and finding them made me waste a lot of time. I had the most trouble making the logos inline with the text. Also with connecting the google font link. Without the screencast I wouldn’t have been able to finish this assignment because I had no idea a float property was a thing. The screencast improved the rate of my learning, it helped me remember the code easier and helped me with my issues. I learned a lot about css styles, it was quite fun to learn css on my own and to be able to change my browser. 

## WOD 3

BrowserHistory3 took me three attempts to reach Rx time. This was the hardest for me because of the navigation bar and the float center. I watched the screencast very slowly, taking my time going step by step before recording it. It was difficult to line up the three browsers and I struggled with the css a lot. I did figure it out in the end with the help of W3Schools and my friend. I learned how to use the properties to execute the results I wanted. 

## Advice for future ITM 352 students
I strongly advise practicing on your own first and make those mistakes without the timer and then watch the video for help. Keep trying and you’ll make progress and improve regardless of what time you get. Failure on these WODS is inevitable because the purpose is to make mistakes and learn from failure. 
