---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Pau"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-05-01
published: true
labels:
  - E5
---

## Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
Assignment 2 added a login and registration page to Assignment 1. It creates a new user, saves existing users and customizes an invoice for each user. It allows users to purchase products from the store. 
 <p>Click to learn more about <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html">Assignment 2</a>.</p>
 
## What did you learn from this assignment?
I learned how to create params in my login and registration page to allow the user to only be able to use certain keys. I created security measures with cookies to make my invoice visible to only existing users that login. 

## Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
I did not work with a partner. 

## How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
I got help from ChatGPT and RTFM. I needed help customizing my invoice page, creating security measures to only allow a login user to see the invoice and saving a new user when registering. 

## How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
This assignment used a lot more brain power hehe. I needed to use a lot of what I learned in the File I/O lab. It's a hard assignment. 

## Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
A: 20% B: 30% C: 40% 
## Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
What worked well was creating the pages and what did not work well was testing the pages. 
## If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
I would ask for more help... 
